Cave-Aged Cheddar
Cloth-wrapped, hand-made Dorset Cheddar, cave-aged in Somerset for a depth of flavour and a moist texture. It is fruity and tangy with a rich, deep flavour and a hint of sweetness.

Country of Origin	British Isles
Milk Variety	Cows'
Style of Cheese	Hard
Vegetarian?	No
Organic?	No
Unpasteurised?	No
For Pregnant Women?	Yes
Ingredients	Pasteurised Cow’s Milk (99.6%) / Salt / Microbial Rennet / Starter culture
Nutritional Info (per 100g)	Energy: 1725Kj, 416Kcal / Fat: 34.9g , of Which Saturated 21.7g / Carbohydrate: 0.1g, of Which Sugars 0.1g / Protein: 25.4g / Salt: 1.81g
Allergen Advice	For allergens see ingredients in bold.
Storage	Keep refrigerated below 8°.
Once open, eat within 5 days.
Our Cave-Aged Cheddar is made on the Ashley Chase Estate, between the rugged World Heritage Coastline and the Dorset Downs. The cheese is made from the milk of the Estate’s own herds, or from local Dorset farms within a thirty mile radius. This strict local provenance of the milk ensures that the cheese can be awarded the coveted PDO status of West Country Farmhouse Cheddar. The cheese is hand-made at every stage from the crucial cutting, stacking and turning of the curds, (the process which is known as “cheddaring”), to the filling of the moulds and finally the bandaging of the young cheeses in cloth. 

Once the cheeses have been encased in the cloth which will protect  them until they are ready to be eaten, they are ready to be moved to the maturing rooms. The Estate is fortunate to have gained access to the famous Wookey Hole Caves in Somerset and have a dedicated area set aside to maturing the precious cheeses. Cheeses have been matured in caves for centuries but this is the only Cheddar lucky enough to have a cave for its home while it develops from youth to glorious maturity. The caves have a constant temperature and humidity which is perfect for maintaining the balance of moisture in the cheeses and the unique environment adds a typical earthiness to the flavour. Unlike some other traditional farmhouse Cheddars, our Cave Aged has a slightly sweet accent to balance the earthiness, with a real depth of flavour and a moist texture.