Kirkham's Lancashire
A traditional, creamy, unpasteurised Lancashire cheese, with a wonderfully moist, pressed texture, and a mellow tang.

Country of Origin	British Isles
Milk Variety	Cows'
Style of Cheese	Hard
Vegetarian?	No
Organic?	No
Unpasteurised?	Yes
For Pregnant Women?	No
Ingredients	Raw cow's milk (99.00%), Salt, Starter, Animal Rennet, Butter
Nutritional Info (per 100g)	Energy: 1646KJ, 397Kcal / Fat: 32.4g, of Which Saturated 20.45g / Carbohydrate Not Specified, of Which Sugars: Trace / Protein: 22.8g / Salt: 1.8g
Allergen Advice	For allergens see ingredients in bold.
Storage	Keep refrigerated below 8°.
Freshly cut and wrapped to order. Please eat within 7 days of receipt.
Kirkham's Lancashire cheese can be used to create a connoisseurs' cheese on toast, because of how the cheese bubbles rather than melts.

Graham Kirkham makes his cheese at Goosnargh in Lancashire, and the milk for the cheese comes from the family’s own herd of Friesian cows.The cheese is made over three days, using a third of the curd from each day of cheese-making. Kirkham's Lancashire is then cloth-bound and rubbed with the traditional butter, which allows the cheese to breathe and develop over a maturation period of two to six months.

The Kirkhams have been making cheese for three generations; and Graham learned to make cheese from his mother, who now helps her husband to milk the cows.

The family is the last maker of traditional Lancashire; and the three-day curd method comes from the days when farmers only had a few cows, and it would take three days to get enough curd to fill one cheese mould.

The flavour of the unpasteurised milk and the buttered muslin rind produces a rich and complex white Lancashire, which melts in the mouth. It also creates the desired ‘buttery crumble’, with a clean and lactic flavour.

* This is a hand-made, artisan cheese, which may contain naturally occurring blue veins. These are normal and intrinsic to the nature of this type of cheese and add to its character. We think they taste good too!  


Every piece freshly cut & wrapped 

We unashamedly source, care for and sell the best cheese, because that is what we believe in. Every day of dispatch one of our trained cheesemongers cuts every piece fresh, by hand, and wraps it in our waxed paper. We do this because it is most respectful way to treat this precious food.