Hafod Cheddar
A Welsh organic Cheddar cheese, hand-made by the Holden family from the milk of their Ayrshire herd. Buttery, rich and nutty.

Country of Origin	British Isles
Milk Variety	Cows'
Style of Cheese	Hard
Vegetarian?	No
Organic?	Yes
Unpasteurised?	Yes
For Pregnant Women?	Yes
Ingredients	
Organic Ayreshire Cows' Milk (98%), Salt, Starter Culture, Animal Rennet, Lard (rind covering only)

Nutritional Info (per 100g)	Energy: 1873Kj, 451Kcal / Fat: 36g, of Which Saturated: 36g / Carbohydrate: 4g, of Which Sugars: < 0.1g / Protein 25g / Salt: 2g
Allergen Advice	For allergens see ingredients in bold.
Storage	Keep refrigerated below 8°.
Freshly cut and wrapped to order. Please eat within 7 days of receipt.
Hafod means 'Summer pasture' in English. A Welsh organic ‘Cheddar’, hand-made by the Holden family from the milk of their Ayrshire herd. Buttery, rich and nutty.

Hafod is a traditional hard cheese, handmade by the Holden family on Wales’ longest certified organic dairy farm, Bwlchwernen Fawr.
The family uses only the milk from their 65 Ayrshire cows to make Hafod. Ayrshire milk is rich in butterfat and protein, and is widely regarded as being ideally suited to cheesemaking.

It is the unique combination of creamy organic Ayrshire milk and traditional cheesemaking techniques that gives Hafod its buttery, rich and nutty flavours.

Sam Holden, who first developed Hafod, was inspired by Dora Saker’s 1917 book ‘Practical Cheddar Cheese-making‘ to develop a recipe much closer to the traditional Cheddars that were made over a century ago. Over the years, Cheddar-makers found ways of speeding up the cheese-making process by using more starter culture and more aggressive strains of bacteria. This resulted in a change in texture and flavour. But Sam returned to the slow pace of Cheddar making, by using a yoghurt starter, and then only a quarter of the amount regularly used. This means that, by the time of evening milking, when other cheesemakers had already packed their cheeses into the moulds and cleaned down the dairy, ready to go home, Sam was only just beginning the milling process.

He is convinced it is worth it though. He says the sheets of curd have a wonderful, silky smooth and slightly elastic quality, similar to chamois leather, and that, when salted, the curds are dry and leafy, with a deep, buttery aroma.

We certainly agree that the resulting cheese is deep and mellow, with a hint of sharpness. Buttery, earthy and long, the taste is certainly well worth the wait. 
The name - Hafod (pronounced Havod) – is Welsh for summer place or pasture. In the farm’s case, it lies in an area of meadow next to the river Aeron, where all the cows graze as heifers before joining the milking herd.

Gold winner at the 2017 Artisan Cheese Awards.

* This is a hand-made, artisan cheese, which may contain naturally occurring blue veins. These are normal and intrinsic to the nature of this type of cheese and add to its character. We think they taste good too!

 
Every piece freshly cut & wrapped 

We unashamedly source, care for and sell the best cheese, because that is what we believe in. Every day of dispatch one of our trained cheesemongers cuts every piece fresh, by hand, and wraps it in our waxed paper. We do this because it is most respectful way to treat this precious food.