Keen's Cheddar
A traditional, cloth-wrapped, unpasteurised Cheddar cheese, made in Somerset by the Keen family.

Country of Origin	British Isles
Milk Variety	Cows'
Style of Cheese	Hard
Vegetarian?	No
Organic?	No
Unpasteurised?	Yes
For Pregnant Women?	Yes
Ingredients	Raw cow's milk (97%), Salt, Starter medium SMP, Animal Rennet, Starter, Pigs Lard
Nutritional Info (per 100g)	Energy: 1700KJ, 407Kcal / Fat: 34.4g, of Which Saturated 21.4g / Carbohydrate 0.1g, of Which Sugars 0.1g / Protein: 25g / Salt: 1.7g
Allergen Advice	For allergens see ingredients in bold.
Storage	Keep refrigerated below 8°.
Freshly cut and wrapped to order. Please eat within 7 days of receipt.
Keen's Cheddar cheese, made in Somerset by George Keen and his family,is moist, tangy and powerful.

Cheese has been made by the Keens at Moorhayes Farm in Wincanton, Somerset since Great Aunt Jane made her first cheese in 1899. Brothers, Stephen and George Keen, now run the family business, and are ably assisted by their sons. Nick runs the dairy herd and arable side of the business, and James is the cheese-maker.

Keen’s Cheddar is made in the traditional way, using unpasteurised milk from their own herd of 250 Friesians to a recipe that has been passed down through the generations. One of the secrets of their success has been in keeping the business small. They employ just two people besides the family. The cloth-bound cheeses mature for more than 12 months in the farm store. They are regularly turned, cleaned and sampled to ensure that each cheese gains the characteristic moist texture, tangy bite and full-bodied flavour.

The Keens are one of the last three families, along with Jamie Montgomery and the Calvers at Westcombe, to make traditional, artisan, Somerset Cheddar. The criteria for this is much stricter than that for West Country Farmhouse Cheddar, and includes using raw milk from their own herd, pint starters rather than the more widely used powdered versions, and animal rennet. Somerset Cheddar cheese must never be made in a block form, and must be cloth-bound before being matured for at least one year.

The Keens are rightly proud of their Cheddar cheese, and of their part in maintaining the quality and reputation of this treasured, but much copied English classic.

* This is a hand-made, artisan cheese, which may contain naturally occurring blue veins. These are normal and intrinsic to the nature of this type of cheese and add to its character. We think they taste good too!

Every piece freshly cut & wrapped 

We unashamedly source, care for and sell the best cheese, because that is what we believe in. Every day of dispatch one of our trained cheesemongers cuts every piece fresh, by hand, and wraps it in our waxed paper. We do this because it is most respectful way to treat this precious food.