Richard III Wensleydale
A hand-made Wensleydale cheese that is as far away from the ubiquitous, mass-produced Wensleydale as you can imagine.

Country of Origin	British Isles
Milk Variety	Cows'
Style of Cheese	Hard
Vegetarian?	Yes
Organic?	No
Unpasteurised?	No
For Pregnant Women?	Yes
Ingredients	Whole cow's milk (98.69%), Salt, Starter culture, Microbial rennet
Nutritional Info (per 100g)	Energy: 1545KJ, 373Kcal / Fat: 31g, of Which Saturated 19.7g / Carbohydrate 0.1g, of Which Sugars 0.1g / Protein: 23.3g / Salt: 1.78g
Allergen Advice	For allergens see ingredients in bold.
Storage	Keep refrigerated below 8°.
Freshly cut and wrapped to order. Please eat within 7 days of receipt.
Richard III Wensleydale is atraditional, cloth-bound, cows’ milk cheese. It's moist and creamy, with a honeyed flavour and lower acidity than modern, mass-produced Wensleydale cheeses.

Wensleydale traces its origins to the Cistercian monks who accompanied the Norman Conquest in 1066, and established abbeys at Fountains, Fors and Jervaulx in Yorkshire. They were accustomed to making cheese in the style of Roquefort, and it is generally accepted that, in accordance with tradition, they used ewes’ milk. (It was not until the 13th century that cows’ milk was used extensively in cheese making in England.)

These monasteries became famous for their Wensleydale cheeses, but it was only after 1560 and the dissolution of the monasteries under Henry VIII, that the cheese recipes passed to local farmers’ wives.

Richard lll spent a number of his childhood years in Middleham Castle in Wensleydale, some four miles from what is now cheese-maker Suzanne Stirke's dairy. Suzanne originally revived the traditional recipe for this great, cloth-bound cows’ milk cheese, and has now been passed it on to Andrew Ridley whose dairy is in Bedale, North Yorkshire.

When young, Wensleydale cheese is a wonderfully clean and fresh tasting cheese, with a mild, slightly lemony, lactic flavour that becomes honeyed.

This recipe has its origins in those of pre-war Wensleydale cheeses, so it is more moist and creamy, and with a lower acidity, than modern, mass-produced Wensleydales - and a world away in flavour.

* This is a hand-made, artisan cheese, which may contain naturally occurring blue veins. These are normal and intrinsic to the nature of this type of cheese and add to its character. We think they taste good too!

Every piece freshly cut & wrapped 

We unashamedly source, care for and sell the best cheese, because that is what we believe in. Every day of dispatch one of our trained cheesemongers cuts every piece fresh, by hand, and wraps it in our waxed paper. We do this because it is most respectful way to treat this precious food.