Appleby's Cheshire
A traditional cloth-bound unpasteurised Cheshire cheese, made by the Appleby family since 1952.

Country of Origin	British Isles
Milk Variety	Cows'
Style of Cheese	Hard
Vegetarian?	No
Organic?	No
Unpasteurised?	Yes
For Pregnant Women?	Yes
Ingredients	Raw cows' milk, salt, animal rennet and annatto.
Nutritional Info (per 100g)	Energy 1778KJ , 429Kcal | Fat 36.6g, of which saturated 23.2g | Carbohydrate 1.5g, of which sugars <0.1g | Protein 23.4g | Salt 1.26g
Allergen Advice	For allergens see ingredients in bold.
Storage	Keep refrigerated below 8˚. Please eat within 7 days of receipt.
Appleby's Cheshire cheese is a unique, complex Cheshire, with a crumbly texture and a zesty, full-bodied and tangy flavour.

Cheshire is in fact Britain’s oldest cheese, having been made since before Roman times. It was recorded in the Doomsday Book of 1086.

For hundreds of years, Cheshire cheese was more famous than Cheddar cheese, but more recently it has fallen from grace, and today only the Appleby family make traditional, farmhouse, raw milk, cloth-bound Cheshire cheese, using milk from their own herd of cows.

For three generations now, at Hawkstone Abbey Farm in Shropshire, they have been using the recipe that Lucy Appleby took from her time at Reaseheath College in 1952.

Appleby’s Cheshire is still made using the unpasteurised morning and evening milk from Paul Appleby’s farm. The Appleby’s land extends to the salt plains of the Cheshire marshes, which add a unique saline flavour and mineral quality to the milk.

Paul and his cheese-maker Gary Gray add traditional starters to the milk, and let the acidity rise gradually to form the curds. Annatto, a traditional neutral colouring, is introduced to give a pale orange colour to the cheese. A long process of cutting, blocking, tearing and milling curds is then carried out, before the cheeses are pressed into their traditional form, and matured for anywhere between six weeks and six months.

* This is a hand-made, artisan cheese, which may contain naturally occurring blue veins. These are normal and intrinsic to the nature of this type of cheese and add to its character. We think they taste good too!

 
Every piece freshly cut & wrapped 

We unashamedly source, care for and sell the best cheese, because that is what we believe in. Every day of dispatch one of our trained cheesemongers cuts every piece fresh, by hand, and wraps it in our waxed paper. We do this because it is most respectful way to treat this precious food.