Wyfe of Bath
An organic, hand-made, single-herd, Gouda-style English cheese that is sweet and rich.

Country of Origin	British Isles
Milk Variety	Cows'
Style of Cheese	Hard
Vegetarian?	Yes
Organic?	Yes
Unpasteurised?	No
For Pregnant Women?	Yes
Ingredients	
Organic Cows' Milk 98.37%, Sea Salt, Microbial Rennet, Water (process aid), Starter culture (non-GMO)

Nutritional Info (per 100g)	
Energy 1765KJ 426Kcal | Fat 36.3g, Of Which Saturated 26.55g | Carbohydrate 0.3g Of Which Sugars 0.1g | Protein 23.1g | Salt 2.19g

Allergen Advice	For allergens see ingredients in bold.
Storage	Keep refrigerated below 8˚, Freshly cut and wrapped to order. Please eat within 7 days of receipt.
Wyfe of Bath is made with organic cows' milk, from a recipe inspired by Gouda, by Graham Padfield at Park Farm in the village of Kelston, on the outskirts of the historic city of Bath.  
Cheese is at the heart of the business, and the family has recently built a new dairy to accommodate the high demand. 
Everything is still made by hand, and the quality of the milk is paramount. Graham uses the organic milk from his own herd of Holstein Friesian cows to make the cheese, which is formed in a basket mould before being aged for four months for a rich, deep flavour.  As a hand-made, single-herd cheese, Wyfe of Bath’s taste changes slightly according to the season, but it is always sweet and rich, and redolent of buttercup meadows! The cheese is similar in style to a young Gouda, but it is not pressed, and this gives it a much more springy texture than its Dutch cousin. 
Wyfe of Bath takes its name from the tale of a character in the 14th Century British literary classic, The Canterbury Tales by Geoffrey Chaucer. Using the old English spelling of ‘wife’, the tale is told by a lusty character with strong appetites!

Gold winner at the 2017 Artisan Cheese Awards.

 
Every piece freshly cut & wrapped 

We unashamedly source, care for and sell the best cheese, because that is what we believe in. Every day of dispatch one of our trained cheesemongers cuts every piece fresh, by hand, and wraps it in our waxed paper. We do this because it is most respectful way to treat this precious food.