Duckett's Caerphilly
A lactic, fresh and crumbly traditional Caerphilly cheese with a bright, zesty flavour

Country of Origin	British Isles
Milk Variety	Cows'
Style of Cheese	Hard
Vegetarian?	No
Organic?	No
Unpasteurised?	Yes
For Pregnant Women?	No
Ingredients	
Raw cow's milk 98.8%, Salt, Rennet, Starter culture

Nutritional Info (per 100g)	Energy 1700KJ, 410Kcal | Fat 34.4g, Of Which Saturated 21.7g | Carbohydrate 0.1g, Of Which Sugars 0.1g | Protein 25g | Salt 1.68g
Allergen Advice	
For allergens see ingredients in bold.

Storage	Keep refrigerated below 8˚. Freshly cut and wrapped to order. Please eat within seven days of receipt.
Caerphilly is an acidic, lactic cheese, with a crumbly interior. Traditionally it was made in Wales, but Somerset farmers began making Caerphilly in the early 1800s, when demand exceeded supply in Wales.  Some Cheddar-makers in the county chose to make Caerphilly in preference to Cheddar, as it is matured for around eight weeks, rather than the year for farmhouse Cheddar.  

When some farmers turned away from making unpasteurised Caerphilly with a natural rind, Chris Duckett’s family continued to do so, until Chris became the last traditional producer of unpasteurised farmhouse Caerphilly in the country.  

In the late 90s Chris became ill, and production shifted to a nearby farm, Westcombe Dairy, complete with the original brining tank and 20-year old brine that adds a natural flora to the cheese.  Over time, Chris taught Tom Calver to make the cheese; and Tom continued the Duckett’s family legacy by adopting Chris’s mother’s ‘make notes’ from the 1930s, and reverting to her older and more traditional recipe.  So, under Tom’s guidance, the cheese has been re-established in its former glory.

 * This is a hand-made, artisan cheese, which may contain naturally occurring blue veins. These are normal and intrinsic to the nature of this type of cheese and add to its character. We think they taste good too!

Every piece freshly cut & wrapped 

We unashamedly source, care for and sell the best cheese, because that is what we believe in. Every day of dispatch one of our trained cheesemongers cuts every piece fresh, by hand, and wraps it in our waxed paper. We do this because it is most respectful way to treat this precious food.