St Jude
A delicate, rich and complex cheese. Hand-made by Julie Cheyney in Suffolk from the milk of Montbeliarde cows, this tiny cheese is full of flavour. The thin, wrinkled coat encases a dense, lactic core, and the flavour is refined but deep and lingering.

Country of Origin	British Isles
Individual Cheese?	90g
Milk Variety	Cows'
Style of Cheese	Soft
Vegetarian?	No
Organic?	No
Unpasteurised?	Yes
For Pregnant Women?	No
Ingredients	Cows' Milk 98.20%, Salt, Rennet, Starter Cultures
Nutritional Info (per 100g)	Energy 1129KJ, 272Kcal | Fat 22.02g, Of Which Saturated 13.71g | Carbohydrate 1.36g, Of Which Sugars <0.5g | Protein 16.5g | Salt 1.87g
Allergen Advice	For allergens see ingredients in bold.
Storage	Keep refrigerated below 8˚, Please eat within 7 days of receipt.
St. Jude is made by Julie Cheyney in Suffolk, from the milk of the same Montbeliarde herd that provides the milk for Jonny Crickmore’s Baron Bigod. 
Julie first started making cheese in 2005, when she and Stacey Hedges created Tunworth. After only one year, the pair were delighted to become Supreme Champion at the British Cheese Awards: a justly deserved accolade but a very rare one in such a young cheese-making business. 
Julie and Stacey parted ways, and, in 2012, Julie set up her own dairy in Hampshire where she began to make St. Jude. 
Julie is so concerned about the quality of her milk that, when she heard on a Radio 4 programme about the work that Jonny Crickmore was doing at Fen Farm, she had to investigate further. Once Julie had got to know more about the Crickmores, she took the decision to move her business and life from Hampshire to Suffolk, in pursuit of the best milk that she could find. 
Julie uses the milk, still warm, from the first cows into the dairy parlour, to be transformed into this delicate, rich, dense and creamy cheese. She believes that cheese should be made slowly and gently, and so every step in the process of producing this lactic set cheese is performed by hand. The cheese is worth the wait: a thin, wrinkled coat, sometimes with a delicate cream line underneath, encases the rich core. The taste is delicate but complex, with a lingering finish.