Tunworth Camembert
Rich, vegetal, intense.

 
An English Camembert good enough to make a Frenchman weep: vegetal, porcini-flavoured and intense.
The Courtyard Dairy selects only particular Tunworth’s that are more wrinkled.  This makes for a more intense flavour – making an already brilliant cheese simply outstanding.

Tunworth was awarded Supreme Champion Cheese 2013 (British Cheese Awards).

Made by Stacey Hedges and Charlotte Spruce in Herriard, Hampshire, England.

More about this
In 2004, after falling in love with cheese whilst working for cheesemongers in Australia, Stacey Hedges started making cheese at home.  Eventually her husband gave her an ultimatum: get serious or stop making cheese.  Stacey researched among cheesemongers what was missing in the market, which led to her deciding to make a Camembert in a style akin to the traditional French.  Consequently she set up Hampshire Cheeses, and Tunworth was born (named after the nearby hamlet of Tunworth, near Basingstoke).

By 2006 Tunworth was fast becoming a brilliant cheese.  Stacey Hedges was using traditional Camembert techniques (a slow acidification, and hand-ladling) as well as undulating moulds and yeasts that help to create a unique cheese. (The Courtyard Dairy asks for it to be as wrinkled as possible so it has a more intense vegetal, porcini flavour).

Charlotte Spruce now partners Stacey in making this amazing cheese: its good enough to make a Frenchman weep!

(Stacey has won with Tunworth cheese the coveted ‘Supreme Champion’ award at The British Cheese Awards not once, but twice – in 2006 and 2013.)

Find out more about how Tunworth is made and the history of Hampshire cheeses by clicking here to view The Courtyard Dairy’s account of their recent visit to Hampshire Cheeses or read this interview with Stacey Hedges, Tunworth’s creator.

This product will have two weeks shelf life from the date of delivery.  Conveniently, at checkout you can choose a delivery date even well in the future if you would like your cheese delivering for a specific event.

Nutritional Data (typical values, per 100g):
Energy 1301kj/314kcal
Fat 26.2g
(of which saturates) 18.2g
Carbohydrates 3.3g
(of which sugars) 0.1g
Fibre 0.1g
Protein 16.3g
Salt 1.38g

Weight: 1 x 250g cheese.