Mini Cheddar Truckle
Traditional unpasteurised Cheddar truckle.

These mini-cloth truckles come whole and are made to a traditional recipe.  Made in a smaller cheese truckle size than the larger cutting St Andrew’s Cheddar truckles, they make the perfect gift, or an outstanding feature on any cheeseboard.

Jane makes cheese with rich, unpasteurised milk from her husband’s cattle.  St Andrew’s Cheddar is classically Scottish in style: aged for 14 months, it is powerful, strong and tangy – a real sharp traditional Cheddar.

Made by Jane Stewart in Anstruther, Fife, Scotland.

More about this
For over 50 years Jane Stewart and her partner Robert have been farming in Fife. In 2007 they decided to make cheese with the high-quality unpasteurised milk given by their homebred herd of Holstein-Friesian cows, so they created the St. Andrews Farmhouse Cheese Company. Jane crafted a recipe to make a crumbly, lactic, fresh cheese, using cheese-making techniques of the North of England (Cheshire and Wensleydale for example). After a cheese-making course at Reading University, Jane carried out a Fact-finding trip in the South West of England and Wales (with the renowned expert Leon Downey). Returning to the farm, she and Robert created ‘Anster’ cheese, named after the nickname for the fishing village of Anstruther.

But upon doing local farmers markets she found she struggled to get people to approach her stall if she only had one product. Cheddar-making uses the small scale equipment and moulds so Jane set about developing a second cheese. Using traditional techniques to the South of England (traditional bacteria ferments to make the cheese, ‘cheddaring’ and making by hand, cloth-binding) Jane has created a cheddar to rival the best of the West Country Aged for 14 months it retains the Scottish cheddar style: powerful, strong and tangy – a real sharp complex Cheddar.

The individual cheese truckles are made in the same way but to a smaller size (900g – 1Kg).

Nutritional Data (typical values, per 100g):
Energy 1895kj/457kcal
Fat 37.2g
(of which saturates) 34g
Carbohydrates 4g
(of which sugars) <0.2g
Protein 26.5g
Salt 2.1g

This product will have two weeks shelf life from the date of delivery.  Conveniently, at checkout you can choose a delivery date even well in the future if you would like your cheese delivering for a specific event.