Mini Lancashire Truckle
Buttery, yoghurty, light.

 
Third-generation Lancashire-maker Graham (Mrs Kirkham’s son!) still follows the traditional two-day curd method, giving a buttery, yoghurty flavour with a fluffy and light texture that melts in the mouth.
This version is their whole mini-truckle, perfect for ageing at home.
For a cut of cheese from their larger cheese truckles click here.

Made by Graham Kirkham in Goosnargh, Lancashire, England.

More about this
Made by the Kirkham family in the village of Goosnargh near Longridge.

Graham learnt to make Lancashire cheese from his mother (the famous Mrs Kirkham) who learnt from her mother, and there is an even longer history of cheese making in the Kirkham family.

Kirkham’s Lancashire Cheese is the last and only farmhouse Lancashire made from unpasteurised milk.  The Kirkham’s make both creamy (aged up to 12 weeks) and tasty (aged over 12 weeks) Lancashire.  Theirs is a more traditional version of Lancashire than the crumbly Lancashire now made by many modern dairies.  The modern dairy version was an invention to speed up the process of making cheese and make a drier, more crumbly, tart cheese.

Traditional creamy and tasty Lancashire is made over two-days (or sometimes even three or four).  It involves using curd from both days (this method originated because some small farmers in Lancashire did not have a big enough herd to make cheese on one day, so would combine several days-worth of curd).  Using the two-day curd method produces a rich yet light and fluffy texture, and helps develop the yoghurty, fresh acidic flavours.

Kirkham’s Lancashire is then traditionally clothbound and ‘buttered-up’ (enclosing the cheese in a buttered cloth to enable it to breath) and aged for 3-6 months.

Over recent years Graham Kirkham has expanded output (increasing the herd from 40 to 100 cows), built a new dairy and returned to even more traditional ways of making Lancashire cheese, producing a lactic, yoghurty-buttery flavour with a fluffy texture that melts in the mouth.  This gives Kirkham’s Lancashire Cheese the “buttery crumble” that Lancashire folk love!  Graham’s favourite way to cook his cheese is they way his Mum (Mrs Kirkham) taught him – ‘Cheesey Eggs’, click here to read the recipe.

Nutritional Data (typical values, per 100g):
Energy 1646kj/397kcal
Fat 32.4g
(of which saturates) 20.5g
Carbohydrates 3.2g
(of which sugars) <0.1g
Protein 22.8g
Salt 1.7g

These mini cheese truckles weighs in at 1.1Kg

This product come with two weeks shelf life from delivery, however at the checkout you can choose any delivery date in the future, should you want your cheese delivering for a specific event.