Winslade
Soft, gooey, with floral, piney notes.

 
A brand new creation – a cross between Vacherin and Camembert, encircled in a spruce strip.  Winslade is then matured and sold by The Courtyard Dairy when it is fully ripe, rich, soft and gooey.
As featured on James Martin.

Made by Stacey Hedges and Charlotte Spruce in Herriard, Hampshire, England.

More about this
Stacey Hedges started making cheese at home in 2004, after falling in love with cheese whilst working for cheesemongers in Australia.  Eventually her husband gave her an ultimatum: get serious or stop making cheese.  Stacey researched among cheesemongers what was missing in the market, which led to her deciding to make a Camembert in a style akin to the traditional French.  So she set up Hampshire Cheeses, and Tunworth was born, named after the nearby hamlet of Tunworth, near Basingstoke.

Winslade was developed over the last two years as an addition to Hampshire Cheeses awesome Tunworth,

Stacey and Charlotte wanted to create a cheese that was a similar size and texture to Tunworth, so they could manage it using the same tools, but very different.  Using expertise from cheese guru Ivan Larcher they created a new Vacherin/Camembert cross.  Encircled in spruce, it takes on a piney note and has a similar rind to washed rind cheeses.  In fact, Winslade is not washed, but uses similar moulds and bacteria to a washed rind cheese, and is matured for eight weeks a high ammonia environment, which creates its pinky hue and dappled rind.

Not as strong as Tunworth, mature Winslade is soft and gooey, with gentle floral and piney notes.

Another success story for Hampshire Cheeses: shortly after its launch, Winslade was awarded Best New Cheese at 2013 The British Cheese Awards.

This product will have two weeks shelf life from the date of delivery.  Conveniently, at checkout you can choose a delivery date even well in the future if you would like your cheese delivering for a specific event.

Nutritional Data (typical values, per 100g):
Energy 1360kj/328kcal
Fat 26.5g
(of which saturates) 18.2g
Carbohydrates 3.6g
(of which sugars) 0.1g
Fibre 0.1g
Protein 18.7g
Salt 1.3g

Weight: 1 x 230g cheese.