Cheddar Smoked Ceodre
A wax coated farmhouse Cheddar naturally smoked over oak chips, giving a smoky flavour and creamy texture.

Key Facts
Country
England
Region
West Country
Flavour
Creamy and smokey
Type of Milk
Cow
Pasteurisation
Pasteurised
Vegetarian Rennet
Yes
Organic
No
Weight
200g
Weight Type
Min
Store & Serve
Individual cheeses will carry their own Best Before/Use By Date, we endeavour to give a minimum of 7 days from the date the order is despatched

Storage
Keep refrigerated.
Instructions for use
Serve at room temperature.
Recommended Drink
Merlot Or Chardonnay
Nutrition
Ingredients
Cheese (Cows' Milk).
Allergens
Milk
NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION
Typical Values
per 100g
Energy kJ
1725
Energy kcal
416
Fat
34.9
Of which saturates
21.7
Carbohydrates
0.1
Of which sugars
0.1
Protein
25.4
Salt
1.8
Name & address of food supplier
Paxton & Whitfield Ltd, 93 Jermyn Street, London SW1Y 6JE

These summary details have been prepared for information purposes only. While we have taken care in preparing this summary and believe it is accurate, it is not a substitute for reading the product packaging and label prior to use. Paxton & Whitfield is unable to accept liability for any incorrect information. If you require specific advice, please contact our mail order team on 01451 823460 or email sales@paxtonandwhitfield.co.uk.

Download Fact Sheet
Cheese Care
How to Cut Cheese
About
Ceodre is the old Anglo-Saxon name for Cheddar Gorge.

Nestled between the Dorset Downs and the West Dorset heritage coast in Bride Valley, lies the estate from which we have sourced our Smoked Ceodre. Farmhouse Cheddar has been made on the farm for over 45 years and continues the tradition of handmade West Country cheesemaking which has been handed down through the generations.

The Smoked Ceodre is made to a traditional recipe using milk from their neighbouring farm and a few other carefully chosen local herds. This gives the cheese a unique flavour and character that can only be found in cheese made using handcrafted methods of production.

The cheesemakers are up very early every morning to begin the cheesemaking process. The curds are cut and salted by hand, the milk turning into cheese within a couple of hours. However, the maturing can then take over twelve months for the cheese to reach its optimum maturity and flavour levels. Once it is matured, the cheese is prepared to size, smoked and then coated in wax.

Paxton & Whitfield's Smoked Ceodre is not only an ideal size, but is wrapped in an attractive protective wax coating to help extend its shelf life in the absence of oxygen.

