Cheddar - Westcombe
Fantastic example of a West Country farmhouse cheddar, with a creaminess and slightly earthy flavour.

Key Facts
Country
England
Region
Somerset
Accreditation
PDO
Flavour
Creamy and Earthy
Type of Milk
Cow
Pasteurisation
Unpasteurised
Vegetarian Rennet
No
Organic
No
Store & Serve
All cut cheeses are cut to order and will have approximately 12 days shelf life on them from the date the order is despatched

Storage
Keep refrigerated.
Instructions for use
Serve at room temperature.
Recommended Drink
Cider
Nutrition
Ingredients
Cows' Milk, Salt, Rennet, Dairy Cultures (Milk)
Allergens
Milk
NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION
Typical Values
per 100g
Energy kJ
1829
Energy kcal
441
Fat
36.40
Of which saturates
24.0
Carbohydrates
2.7
Of which sugars
0.2
Protein
25.80
Salt
1.95
Name & address of food supplier
Paxton & Whitfield Ltd, 93 Jermyn Street, London SW1Y 6JE

These summary details have been prepared for information purposes only. While we have taken care in preparing this summary and believe it is accurate, it is not a substitute for reading the product packaging and label prior to use. Paxton & Whitfield is unable to accept liability for any incorrect information. If you require specific advice, please contact our mail order team on 01451 823460 or email sales@paxtonandwhitfield.co.uk.

Download Fact Sheet
Cheese Care
How to Cut Cheese
About
Made by Tom Calver of Westcombe Dairy in the Batcombe Vale of Somerset using the milk from the Friesian cows farmed by his father. This farmhouse cheese making business has been making its renowned cheddar since1890 and now make over 100 tonnes of Cheddar a year, all of which is made to the highest quality using traditional methods.

Tom Calver of Westcombe believes the success of his Cheddar lies in their ability to exploit the local Westcombe terroir and letting it enhance their cheese making. From the richness of the milk to the special conditions of their cheese ageing room, everything they do revolves around letting the milk express itself in the finished cheese.

Westcombe Cheddar is one of very few cheddars to be made by hand in the Westcountry using traditional rennet, unpasteurised milk and pint starters - something that qualifies it as a Westcountry Farmhouse Cheddar which is Protected Designation of Origin (PDO).

Westcombe Cheddar has a deep complex flavour with a mellow lactic tang and long notes of citrus, hazelnut and caramel. The texture is structured and firm, with a smooth breakdown that keeps the flavours lingering on your palate. This cheese is often called a 'five mile Cheddar', as you’re still tasting it five miles down the road.

British Cheese Awards 2018 Best Cheddar Winner

Westcombe Cheddar picked up two awards at the 2017 British Cheese Awards - Best Cheddar and Best PDO/PGI Cheese.

