Lincolnshire Poacher
An open textured cheddar style cheese from Lincolnshire with an intense & meaty flavour that lingers.

Key Facts
Country
England
Region
Lincolnshire
Flavour
Tangy and fruity
Type of Milk
Cow
Pasteurisation
Unpasteurised
Vegetarian Rennet
No
Organic
No

About
Simon and Tim Jones produce award-winning handmade Lincolnshire Poacher Cheese on their dairy farm situated on the eastern edge of the beautiful Lincolnshire Wolds, where the lush pastures sit on chalky land. They are the fourth generation to be running the family farm which has been in the family since 1917. The use of their freshly produced unpasteurised milk from their own dairy herd which graze on the rolling hills of the farm is the basis for the distinctive characteristics of the cheese.This is, of course in conjunction with the care and attention taken during the making of each individual batch of hand made cheese. To ensure the milk is of the highest quality, the ‘girls’are treated like royalty. They’ve even got their own happy cow brushes so they can give themselves a really good scratch.

The cheese is made a little bit like traditional West Country Cheddar although there are several key differences in the recipe that give Lincolnshire Poacher its own unique flavour and texture. This means there is plenty of character to the cheese but in a restrained style. Simon Jones learnt his cheesemaking from the late Dougal Campbell who in turn learnt in Switzerland, and so it is not surprising that Lincolnshire Poacher, although similar to a Cheddar has some marked differences which mean it can be likened to the continental hard mountain cheeses, such as Comte.

We choose to stock Vintage Poacher, which is matured for 18-22 months and although the taste varies with the seasons it has more depth and complexity and usually has a distinctive fruity, nutty taste with a clean sweet finish.

Lincolnshire Poacher has recently won Best Hard & Best Cow at 2017 Artisan Cheese Awards.

Previous to this Lincolnshire Poacher as won:

2011/12 Gold British Cheese Awards

2010/11 Silver British Cheese Awards and

Best Modern British Cheese at the British Cheese Awards 2009.