Mayfield
A sweet and nutty cheese characterised by its golden colour and evenly spread holes. Similar in style to an Emmental

Key Facts
Country
England
Region
East Sussex
Flavour
Sweet and gentle
Type of Milk
Cow
Pasteurisation
Pasteurised
Vegetarian Rennet
Yes
Organic
No
Store & Serve
All cut cheeses are cut to order and will have approximately 12 days shelf life on them from the date the order is despatched

Storage
Keep refrigerated.
Instructions for use
Serve at room temperature.
Nutrition
Ingredients
Cows' Milk, Salt, Rennet, Dairy Cultures (Milk)
Allergens
Milk
NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION
Typical Values
per 100g
Energy kJ
1763
Energy kcal
426
Fat
36.6
Of which saturates
23.32
Carbohydrates
>0.1
Of which sugars
>0.1
Protein
23.2
Salt
1.79
Name & address of food supplier
Paxton & Whitfield Ltd, 93 Jermyn Street, London SW1Y 6JE

These summary details have been prepared for information purposes only. While we have taken care in preparing this summary and believe it is accurate, it is not a substitute for reading the product packaging and label prior to use. Paxton & Whitfield is unable to accept liability for any incorrect information. If you require specific advice, please contact our mail order team on 01451 823460 or email sales@paxtonandwhitfield.co.uk.


About
Made in the heart of the East Sussex Countryside by Arthur Alsop and Nic Walker. Both Cheese Makers are highly skilled Chefs and both have a lifelong passion for cheese and cheese making. They have allowed Cheese Making to completely dominate their lives and have developed some truly unique and distinctive products in a small but modern dairy.

Mayfield is a semi hard wax coated cheese made from full fat pasteurised cow’s milk. It has a creamy sweet nutty flavour, which varies in strength from mild to full dependent on age, and contains naturally developed oval shaped holes in its interior, called eyes. It is aged for 5 – 7 months and is an excellent alternative to continental Alpine cheeses.

Mayfield received a gold medal with 3 Stars at the Great Taste Awards and a gold medal at the 2010 British Cheese Awards and a gold medal at the 2011 World Cheese Awards.