Ticklemore
A white rinded goats milk cheese made in the Dart Valley. Rich, citrusy and refreshing in flavour

Key Facts
Country
England
Region
Devon
Flavour
Rich and fresh
Type of Milk
Goat
Pasteurisation
Pasteurised
Vegetarian Rennet
Yes
Organic
No

About
Ticklemore is made on the breath-takingly beautiful Sharpham Estate overlooking the River Dart near Totnes in South Devon. The estate comprises 500 acres of mixed farmland including pasture, vineyards, orchards, woodlands and gardens. From 1981, the18th century coachyard of Sharpham House was home to the creamery where a range of handmade cows' cheeses were produced. Made using the rich milk from the estate's own Jersey cattle and vegetarian rennet, the unpasteurised cheeses were so well received that demand far exceeded supply.

In April 2003, production was moved into a new purpose-built creamery sited next to the estate's winery. The building is modern and bigger, however the team still employ the same traditional techniques and the cheeses remain fully hand-produced and free of GM ingredients. Visitors are able to view the process through windows as part of a visit to the estate. In 1998, the estate started to produce Ticklemore Goat's cheese, a product formerly made by a neighbouring cheesemaker Robin Congdon.

The milk for the production of Ticklemore cheese comes form Button Farm on Dartmoor, where they have a herd of 60 goats. The goats are free range and a mix of breeds, to include Saanen, Toggenburg and Anglo-Nubian which contribute their differing styles of milk to give Ticklemore its inimitable character. Fresh milk, not frozen, is used in the production of Ticklemore and the cheese is made completely by hand using traditional methods. The cheeses are matured for at least two months during which time they are nurtured to perfection.

Ticklemore has a very rich and clean flavour with a fresh creamy lemon tang and a gently salty aftertaste

Ticklemore won a Silver Medal at the 2016 British Cheese Awards

Ticklemore won Gold medal at Taste of the West 2015