Lancashire Bomb
The famous Lancashire Bomb is a taste explosion and must be tasted to be believed.
TASTING NOTES
The famous Lancashire Bomb is a taste explosion and must be tasted to be believed. This is a very popular Lancashire cheese due to the very creamy and full flavoured taste which leaves you wanting more. The cheese is very distinctive in appearance being a round cheese coated in black wax. Crumbly, moist texture will a creamy yet strong flavour resulting from The Lancashire Bombs being matured over two years.

What makes Lancashire Cheese so special? For centuries, Lancashire dairy farmers’ wives made cheese from surplus milk. On small farms, there was insufficient milk from a single day to make a cheese, and so each day’s milk was curdled and accumulated for several days until there was enough CURD to make a cheese. Uniquely amongst all British cheeses, two or three days’ curd of varying maturity are blended together, giving LANCASHIRE CHEESES a distinctive character.

Tasty Lancashire cheese is made by the same traditional method as Creamy Lancashire but is matured for longer, from 12 weeks to 24 months. It has a mature nutty taste. The Lancashire Bomb or Lancashire Black Bomb is a sphere of Tasty Lancashire cheese coated in black wax. Each individual Lancashire Bomb is approx 460g.
TASTING FAQS
What about Crumbly Lancashire Cheese?

Crumbly Lancashire cheese - Unlike the other Lancashire varieties, this is made from a single day's milk and resembles other crumbly cheeses such as Cheshire and Wensleydale. It is the only Lancashire cheese that is produced outside of the county of Lancashire. It tends to be matured for only 6–8 weeks, resulting in a crumbly, and fresh cheese. If that sounds good we sell Mrs Kirkhams Traditional Lancashire (made in Lancashire) that is a full fat traditional crumbly cheese.

KEY FACTS
Age	24 Months
Country Of Origin	England
Milk Type	Cows
Organic	No
Pasteurisation	Pasteurised
Region	Lancashire
Strength Of Cheese	Strong
Style Of Cheese	Crumbly
Vegetarian	Yes
